README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <img src="./docs/_media/wave_project_avatar.png" width="20%">
    <h1>WAVE</h1>
    <p align="center">
    <strong>Wireless Automation via Engagement</strong>
    </p>
</div>

## Development Setup
At the project root:

__Step 1:__ Create a virtual environment  `.venv`.

__Step 2:__ Then run:
```
python setup_dev.py
```

__All done!__

---

## About the project

WAVE enables you to control your home without the touch of buttons or touchscreens.


Wave is a lightweight gesture-recognition platform for controlling smart home devices. It is designed to run on Raspberry Pi units so devices can be placed easily in rooms, operate wirelessly, and are not tied to a single location. Gesture inputs are translated into control commands for lights, outlets, media, and other home automation endpoints.

Key points:
- Gesture-based control for common smart-home actions (lighting, media, power, etc.)
- Deployable on Raspberry Pi: small, inexpensive, and easy to place in any room
- Wireless operation and flexible placement — not bound to a fixed location
- Focus on low-latency, modular processing and integrations with device drivers and the WebApp

## Documentation Ressources
For further documentation, please consult the following documents:

- Module Documentation
    - Core Documentation: [open](/docs/Core/_CORE.md)
    - Device Documentation: [open](/docs/Device/_DEVICE.md)
    - Image Processor Documentation: [open](/docs/ImageProcessor/_IMAGE_PROCESSOR.md)
    - WebApp Documentation [open](/docs/WebApp/_WEB_APP.md)

- DevOps Documentation: [open](/docs/DevOps/_DEV_OPS.md)

Commit message:

docs: put user guide page

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <img src="./docs/_media/wave_project_avatar.png" width="20%">
    <h1>WAVE</h1>
    <p align="center">
    <strong>Wireless Automation via Engagement</strong>
    </p>
</div>

## Development Setup
At the project root:

__Step 1:__ Create a virtual environment  `.venv`.

__Step 2:__ Then run:
```
python setup_dev.py
```

__All done!__

---

## About the project

WAVE enables you to control your home without touching any buttons or screens. Use a personalized system of gestures to handle all your devices at the wink of your hand.

## Features

_TODO: feature list_

## User Guide

For more information on how to use WAVE, please refer to our [User Guide](/docs/User/_USER_GUIDE.md).

## Documentation Ressources
For further  technical documentation, please consult the following documents:

- Module Documentation
    - Core Documentation: [open](/docs/Core/_CORE.md)
    - Device Documentation: [open](/docs/Device/_DEVICE.md)
    - Image Processor Documentation: [open](/docs/ImageProcessor/_IMAGE_PROCESSOR.md)
    - WebApp Documentation [open](/docs/WebApp/_WEB_APP.md)

- DevOps Documentation: [open](/docs/DevOps/_DEV_OPS.md)
