# Gestures  
Gestures are hand signals which have a specified meaning or action bound to them. They can be defined using files on the core and will be sent to the image processor on connection.  

## Data
### Table

The following table describes the data that a gesture holds. `Optional` specifies if the value is optional when defining gestures.

| Name       | Type           | Optional | Description                                         |
| ---------- | -------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| id         | string         | No       | An id set in the configuration file of the gesture  |
| components | list\[string\] | No       | A list of components that belong to the gesture     |
| uuid       | string         | Yes      | A UUID generated by the core on startup             |
| name       | string         | Yes      | A human-readable name of the gesture                |
| type       | string         | Yes      | Whether it is a `STILL` or `TRACK` gesture          |
| events     | list[string]   | Yes      | A list of event ids that the gesture should trigger |
| power      | integer        | Yes      | The required power level |


### Description
A more complete description of the parameters.

#### id
The ID is set in the configuration file of the gesture. It has to be unique, otherwise the core will ignore the corresponding gesture.  
The suggested format is `namespace:gesture`.  
Example: `gangster:thumb_up`

#### components
Components are a list of [bodyparts](BODYPARTS.md) which belong to the gesture. If the image processor detects all of the components it will trigger this gesture.  
A list of parts can be found in the document linked above.  
Example: `[LTHUMB, LINDEX, RTHUMB]`

#### uuid
A UUID generated by the core on startup. It will be used during a session and will be regenerated once the core restarts. Used for identifying gestures in communication between components.  
Example: `5cd76669-1922-4eea-8188-3a9ea7ea7ccb`

#### name
A human-readable name of the gesture. It is optional and can be duplicate. It is used when displaying the gestures to users for configuration or logging purposes.  
Example: `Thumb up`  
Default: `None`

#### type
Whether it is a `STILL` or `TRACK` gesture.  
`STILL` means that the gesture will have no position attribute, meaning that tracking movement ***will not*** be possible, only the pure detection.  
`TRACK` means that the gesture will have a position attribute once detected, meaning that tracking movement ***will be*** posssible. This allows control of scales like volume or temperature.  
Default: `STILL`

#### events
A list of event ids that the gesture should trigger when it's detected.  
Example: `[light_on, door_open]`  
Default: `None`

#### power
The required power level.  
There will probably be an authentication system later. This will need some kind of "access levels", represented in "power". A higher power value is more powerful.  
If left unspecified everyone can use the gesture.  
Example: 30  
Default: 0